Update docs (#3881)
valhalla/valhalla: CONTRIBUTING.md

We welcome contributions to Valhalla. If you would like to report an issue, or even better fix an existing one, please use the [Valhalla issue tracker](https://github.com/valhalla/valhalla/issues) on GitHub.

There are many ways to make meaningful contributions to the project:
- file issues & bugs with **clear and easily reproducible instructions**
- contribute bug fixes

> - contribute feature implementations, for your own sake **only after opening an issue asking for feedback**

Reviewer: i would word this slightly less strongly
```suggestion
- contribute feature implementations, for larger features/changes its best to **open an issue asking for feedback before starting implementation**
```

- improve translations on [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/valhalla/valhalla-phrases/locales-en-us-json--transifex/)

## Code contributions

> We appreciate the community to pick up and fix bugs or even implement new features. There are a few things to follow/be aware of when developing Valhalla:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We appreciate the community picking up and fixing bugs or even implementing new features. There are a few things to follow/be aware of when working on Valhalla:
```

> - we currently use the C++11 standard

Reviewer: soon 17
```suggestion
- we currently use the C++14 standard
```

- we use `pre-commit` to make sure commits are formatted & linted: run `./scripts/format.sh` once and it'll be installed
- `clang-format`/`clang-tidy` is used to format/lint the C++ code, `black` & `flake8` format/lint Python code
- [`ASan`](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/AddressSanitizer.html) is run in CI, but without its integrated leak sanitizer due to platform issues

> - we ask for tests to prove the bug fix or feature implementation, please feel free to ask us for directions in the PR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- we ask for unit tests to demonstrate a working bug fix or feature implementation, please feel free to ask us for instructions in the PR
```

Before opening a PR we'd ask you to format & lint the code:
```
# installs the pre-commit hook
./scripts/format.sh
pre-commit run --all-files

# optionally run clang-tidy
# needs the compile_commands.json, we have to rebuild Valhalla
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_EXPORT_COMPILE_COMMANDS=On && make -C build
./scripts/clang-tidy-only-diff.sh

# optionally run with ASan
cmake -B build -DENABLE_ADDRESS_SANITIZER=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug && make -C build
# if the leak sanitizer is problematic, you can disable it with 
export ASAN_OPTIONS=detect_leaks=0
```

### Unit/integration Tests

> We highly encourage running and updating the tests to make sure no regressions have been made. We use the Google test suite and also created our own test framework called "gurka" (the Norsk pendant to OSRM's "cucumber"), to easily test custom-built maps. Check out more information in the [test docs](test/gurka/README.md).

Reviewer: i have no idea why it says "pendant" here, imho it should be:
```suggestion
We highly encourage running and updating the tests to make sure no regressions have been made. We use the Google test suite and also created our own test framework called "gurka" (the Norsk counterpart to OSRM's "cucumber"), to easily test custom-built maps. Check out more information in the [test docs](test/gurka/README.md).
```

To build and run all tests:

```
make check -j$(nproc)
```

To run an individual test, first move into the `./build` directory (lots of paths in the tests are relative):

```
cd build
make run-<test name>
```

Coverage reports are automatically generated using `codecov` for each pull request, but you can also build them locally by passing `-DENABLE_COVERAGE=On` and running `make coverage`.

### Performance tests

This will mostly be performed by the maintainers before we merge PRs which could have a significant impact on performance or quality.

1. Take a giant file with routes with > 10k
2. Spin up the service
3. Run the requests with `./run_route_scripts/run_with_server.py`: we can alter the logic for the requests inside that script, depending what we want to test

> 4. E.g. `./run_route_scripts/run_with_server.py --test-file auto.txt --url http://localhost:8002/route --concurrency 20 --format csv`

Reviewer: :+1:

> ## Tranlation contributions

Reviewer 2: typo:  "Tranlation " ----> "Translation "   ( extra "s" )

There are many ways to make meaningful contributions to the project:
- file issues & bugs with **clear and easily reproducible instructions**
- contribute bug fixes
- contribute feature implementations, for your own sake **only after opening an issue asking for feedback**
- improve translations on [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/valhalla/valhalla-phrases/locales-en-us-json--transifex/)

## Community Values

We ask that you are respectful when contributing to Valhalla or engaging with our community. As a community, we appreciate the fact that contributors might be approaching the project from a different perspective and background. We hope that beginners as well as advanced users will be able to use and contribute back to Valhalla. We want to encourage contributions and feedback from all over the world, which means that English might not be a contributor's native language, and sometimes we may encounter cultural differences. Contructive disagreements can be essential to moving a project forward, but disrespectful language or behavior will not be tolerated.

> Above all, be patient, be respectful, and be kind!

Author: Took that from Mapzen Pelias days, I liked the text.

Reviewer: my vote is to leave it out. no offense to pelias of course but i can't see what information this adds or what purpose it serves.

let me explain. it basically just says "don't be a jerk or else". but even that abbreviated version is fairly useless. i can see a few lines of reasoning. either you are not a jerk in which case the text above does not apply to you OR you are a jerk. if you are a jerk are you really going read the readme and say ah damn they told me not to be a jerk, i guess ill find another project? i highly doubt it.

i guess there could be people who are undecided on their jerkhood but i think the only category of people who fall into this (people who need to be reminded not to be jerks) are children. i doubt we need to worry about children coming to the project that are also young enough that they need to be told to act nice in which case we are, at best, condencending to the adults that come here.

the only other purpose i can see it serving is as a pat on the back to ourselves that we are not jerks which i think is better shown through our own actions rather than asserted in our readme.

Author: hahahaha totally fine with me, I'll remove it.

To build and run all tests:

```
make check -j$(nproc)
```

To run an individual test, first move into the `./build` directory (lots of paths in the tests are relative):

```
cd build
make run-<test name>
```

Coverage reports are automatically generated using `codecov` for each pull request, but you can also build them locally by passing `-DENABLE_COVERAGE=On` and running `make coverage`.

### Performance tests

This will mostly be performed by the maintainers before we merge PRs which could have a significant impact on performance or quality.

1. Take a giant file with routes with > 10k
2. Spin up the service
3. Run the requests with `./run_route_scripts/run_with_server.py`: we can alter the logic for the requests inside that script, depending what we want to test
4. E.g. `./run_route_scripts/run_with_server.py --test-file auto.txt --url http://localhost:8002/route --concurrency 20 --format csv`

## Tranlation contributions

> Valhalla currently has support almost 30 languages with > 95% translation coverage. If you find that Valhalla's output instructions are not supported or not optimal in your favorite language, it'd be great if you took the time to contribute improvements. We're using [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/valhalla/valhalla-phrases/locales-en-us-json--transifex/) to manage translations and try to download all improvements before each release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Valhalla currently supports almost 30 languages with > 95% translation coverage. If you find that Valhalla's output instructions are not supported or not optimal in your favorite language, it'd be great if you took the time to contribute improvements. We're using [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/valhalla/valhalla-phrases/locales-en-us-json--transifex/) to manage translations and try to download all improvements before each release.
```
